feat: local Keycloak + Envoy Gateway dev-local setup (#1166)
netgroup-polito/CrownLabs: dev-local/keycloak/README.md

# Local Keycloak + OIDC — end-to-end setup

> Everything needed to bring up Keycloak (realm, clients, scopes, base users) and the

Reviewer: Can you please rewrite the sentence?
Such as "This section presents the steps needed to bring up...." etc.

> Kubernetes apiserver validating Keycloak-issued tokens (instead of every local request

Reviewer: Same as above, the sentence looks weird.

  the realm import, and the `mydrive-pvcs` namespace.
- [`apiserver-oidc-integration.md`](apiserver-oidc-integration.md) — the
  rationale, verification steps and troubleshooting table behind the OIDC
  setup below. Read it if something in this guide doesn't behave as
  expected; this README only has the commands.

## 0. Prerequisites

- The base k3s cluster — see [`../base-k3s/README.md`](../base-k3s/README.md).
- [Envoy Gateway](../envoy/README.md) set up (Gateway API CRDs, the controller, the
  shared `crownlabs` Gateway, the `*.crownlabs.local` wildcard cert) — Keycloak's own
  manifest has no HTTPS/NodePort of its own anymore, it's exposed entirely through the
  `HTTPRoute` in `manifests/keycloak.yaml`, which needs that `Gateway` to already exist.

```bash
kubectl get nodes
# expected: your node, Ready
kubectl get gateway crownlabs -n default
# expected: PROGRAMMED = True
```

## 1. Keycloak and the `mydrive-pvcs` namespace

```bash
kubectl apply -f dev-local/keycloak/manifests
kubectl rollout status statefulset/keycloak
```

This single apply covers:
- Keycloak + Postgres (`manifests/keycloak.yaml`), with `--import-realm` enabled and the

>   realm ConfigMap mounted. Keycloak itself only ever speaks plain HTTP — TLS terminates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  realm ConfigMap mounted. Keycloak itself only speaks plain HTTP (in fact, TLS terminates
```

>   at the Gateway (see [`../envoy/README.md`](../envoy/README.md)), not here, so there's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  at the Gateway, as described in [`../envoy/README.md`](../envoy/README.md)), so there's
```

On first startup, Keycloak imports the realm from the mounted ConfigMap
automatically (log: `KC-SERVICES0032: Import JSON RealmRepresentation from
file .../crownlabs-realm.json`). **If the realm already exists in the
database, the import is silently skipped** — standard `--import-realm`
behavior, meant to avoid losing state across restarts. To re-import from
scratch, delete the realm first (Admin Console, or `DELETE
/admin/realms/crownlabs`), or wipe the Postgres database.

Credentials included in the export:

| Who | Credentials |
|---|---|
| Keycloak admin (`master` realm) | `admin` / `admin` (set via env var, not part of the export) |
| Test user (`crownlabs` realm) | `john.doe` / `johndoe123`, email verified |
| `operator-local` client (service account for the operator) | client secret: `operator-local-dev-secret` |
| `k8s` client (frontend, public) | no secret, redirect URI already set to `http://localhost:3000/*` |

> These are **known values, deliberately documented for local development**,
> exactly like `admin`/`admin` in the manifest — not meant for real
> environments.

## 2. Configure the k3s apiserver for OIDC

> This is the one step that genuinely requires root and a k3s restart, so it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step requires root privileges and a K3s restart, so it
```
